Romantic [[expectation]]s are often [[ridiculous]] and [[unhelpful]], but [[attachment]] 
science can guide us to real and lasting love.

Romantic love – seeking it, [[glorifying]] it, dishing it – is a human obsession. 
My English barmaid mother called it a ‘funny five minutes’ never to be 
trusted and basically dangerous for women. The basic building block of 
family stability – love – is recognised as a source of happiness and life 
satisfaction, a key to physical health and resilience, and a primary life 
goal. This mystery you fall into is critical but all too often fleeting: popular 
consensus holds love as a sexual force with a best-before date.
 
It is time to change our love stories. They are mostly ridiculous and 
misleading. Romeo and Juliet is not a love story. It is a six-day relationship 
between adolescents and an infatuation that leads to a tribal war. Gone 
with the Wind is not a love story. It is a tale about a woman who cannot 
make up her mind in the game of love, and by the time she does her lover 
has gotten bored and buzzed off.
 
Real love stories reflect the wisdom of attachment science, which states 
that love is an ancient survival code designed to keep a few precious others 
that we can count on close. We are wired by millions of years of evolution 
for this kind of connection, and it is as essential to us as our next breath. 
Emotional connection with a safe loved other soothes our nervous system; 
it whispers ‘safety’ to our bonding brain. On the other hand, a sense of 
isolation, not mattering to others and being rejected, is a real and present 
threat for a bonding mammal. 
 
What exactly does attachment science tell us? The wisdom of attachment 
science can be summarised in a few basic ideas, the most fundamental 
of which is that we are wired for close connection with others and this 
connection is vital to our survival. This connection is the ultimate resource 
for human beings. The brain takes the resource called proximity to 
others into account even in basic perception processes such as the visual 
perception of height. If we are alone, we actually see a hill as higher. If we 
are accompanied by another, we perceive a hill as lower. The idea that we 
are better together, sharing the load and the stress, is a physiological fact 
rather than a sentimental statement. 
 
Being able to depend on a loved one also offers us a secure base, a platform 
from which to risk and explore our world. Effective dependency is a 
source of resilience, while the denial of attachment needs and pseudo-self-
sufficiency are liabilities. It is the child who knows the mother is watching 
and will come if needed who takes the risk to go down the steep slide, 
and the adult under pressure who can call up the encouraging voice of his 
partner who deals best with stress. Securely connected folks recover from 
trauma more effectively and are less likely to develop PTSD. Generally, 
the more connected we feel, the more confident and autonomous we can 
be. Secure connection grows us and makes us strong.
 
The key factors that define the quality of any bond are the perceived 
accessibility, responsiveness and emotional engagement with an 
attachment figure. These translate neatly into the acronym ARE, capturing 
the key question that arises in conflict with close others: ‘Are you there 
for me?’ Often masked by more surface power struggles over issues such 
as parenting or chores, this question is at the heart of all relationship 
distress. When the answer to the above question is a ‘maybe’ or a ‘no’, a 
natural process of separation distress occurs, and we protest the loss of connection with anguished angry calls and demands (often misinterpreted in adult relationships). We cling and seek connection, and finally move into 
depression and a sense of helplessness.